This document relates to the extenuating circumstances (EC) policy and procedure that was
in place at the University of Nottingham during the 2022/23 academic year. For information
about the policy from 25 September 2023 onwards, please visit our extenuating
circumstances webpages.
Guidance on Recommendations for EC Panels
1. Core considerations
This guidance supports the University’s Extenuating Circumstances Procedure and should be read
with the procedure.
An Extenuating Circumstances Panel cannot change marks; marks or classifications can only be
altered by reassessment or the setting aside of a module or element of a module when computing a
mark or classification. The full range of recommendations open to a Panel are detailed below.
Panels should always consider allowing a student an additional attempt as opposed to disregarding
of marks, elements or modules, making this latter recommendation only when additional attempts
are not possible or undesirable.
An Extenuating Circumstances Panel may not make a recommendation which would change a
penalty for academic misconduct imposed by a School, Department or an Academic Misconduct
Committee e.g., a first sit cannot be offered for an assessment for which a penalty has been
imposed. If an EC Panel makes a recommendation before the academic misconduct is detected,
the academic misconduct finding will void a recommendation made by an EC Panel.
2. Potential outcomes
Panels should list one of the outcomes below:
(a) The claim is not approved because the grounds are not acceptable within the University’s
Extenuating Circumstances Procedure.
(b) The claim is not approved because the evidence provided does not cover the relevant
period.
(c) The claim is not approved because the evidence provided is not from an approved source.
(d) The claim is not approved because the evidence provided is insufficient to support the claim
of seriousness of impact.

(e) The claim is not approved because the evidence provided and/or the candidate’s overall
mark profile indicate insufficient grounds to conclude that the candidate’s ability to study
and/or perform in the relevant assessment(s) would have been significantly different in the
absence of the circumstances advanced.
(f) The claim is not approved because the evidence provided and the candidate’s overall mark
profile indicate grounds for concluding that the candidate’s ability to study and/or perform in
the relevant assessment(s) has been adversely affected, but not to such an extent as to
materially affect the degree class/programme awarded.
(g) The claim is approved because there are sufficient grounds for believing that the student’s
ability to study and/or perform in the relevant assessment(s) has been adversely affected
(h) For students in their final year of study who have attempted and passed an assessment but
have made a claim on the basis of affected performance, Schools/Departments may also list
the following outcome:
(i) The claim is provisionally approved on the basis of the evidence provided but a final decision
on the outcome and any recommendations will be deferred to a meeting of the Extenuating
Circumstances Panel at the end of the academic session when the full impact can be
assessed.
If approved, follow one or more of the following recommendations:
3. Potential recommendations
The Extenuating Circumstances Panel may make one or more of the following recommendations to
the relevant Board of Examiners:
For Undergraduate students, Postgraduate students on taught programmes and Postgraduate
Research students undertaking taught modules:
1. Waive late submission penalties. Please also refer to Penalties for the Late Submission of
Assessed Coursework.
2. Grant an extension to the deadline set for a submission, taking into account other deadlines
that the student has to meet. Students should be informed of any change to the timescale for
the return of coursework and associated feedback in accordance with the Policy on
Feedback to Students.
3. In the case of a first attempt, allow a further attempt (examination or coursework) for which
the mark gained will, subject to section 4(d) of the Assessment Regulations and relevant
Progression regulations (with or without attendance), count as the student’s first mark and

therefore towards an award if relevant in the affected assessment(s).relevant in the affected
assessment(s).
4. In the case of a reassessment, allow an additional attempt at the examination or coursework
(at the same or equivalent assessment),in accordance with the relevant Progression
regulations (with or without attendance).
5. Recommend a different form of re-assessment, as determined by the School, if the same or
equivalent of the original is no longer possible, to assess whether the learning outcomes are
achieved. Students have no automatic right to individual assessment of this nature. Approval
from QSC will be required if this is outside regulation.
6. Disregard an element of a module assessment and re-compute module mark based on
completed components subject to regulation 5 of the Assessment Regulations.
7. Offer the student a repeat period of study and assessment (for which tuition fees will be
payable) subject to this being an option supported by any sponsor, immigration legislation or
legal obligation and to the University’s policy on Maximum Period from Initial Registration.
8. In the case of final year students (this includes the taught stage for PGT students) when a
further attempt at the assessment has not been possible before the relevant Examination
Board is due to meet, disregard marks for specific affected module(s) to a maximum of 20
credits in computing the classification or credit weighted average for the final stage, subject
to the provisions of the Regulations for Undergraduate, Taught Masters, Postgraduate
Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses. Whilst a first attempt at the assessment must
usually have been made for this option to be recommended, Section 6a of the Assessment
Regulations should be taken into consideration at this point. The recommendation may only
be applied at the end of the final year once the full marks profile is available. If a further first
attempt has been offered earlier in the year as a result of an EC claim and it has not been
possible for the student to undertake the assessment by before the meeting of the
Examination Board, the application of this recommendation may still be considered.
9. When a student has experienced circumstances affecting their ability to study/take
assessments in their final year of study, such that their final year performance is deemed
unrepresentative of their academic profile, recommend that a case be made to QSC to for
the purposes of recommending a degree classification outside regulations based on
performance in earlier years. This recommendation should only be used in exceptional
circumstances for cases where there is no prospect of the student undertaking first attempts
within a reasonable period of time, for example, in the case of chronic or terminal illness of
the student or the dependent of a student.
Where option 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 has been applied no further consideration of the circumstances will
take place at an Examination Board. For instance, where the School has offered a first attempt but

the student declines to take that opportunity, the circumstances will not be taken into account at the
final Examination Board.
For Postgraduate Research students at any stage of study the Extenuating Circumstances Panel
may:
either
(a) Grant an extension to the date set for the Progression Review
or
(b) If the student is referred for re-assessment in the Progression Review, permit the PGR to
undertake a further Progression Review as a First Sit.
4. Additional recommendations
Extenuating Circumstances Panels may also or alternatively make recommendations in response to
an EC claim. Recommendations may include, but are not limited to:
• a student is advised to attend a meeting with their Personal Tutor, the SPSA and a Welfare
Officer (or other appropriate staff member at UNNC or UNMC) to consider the support
options available, including the possibility of a voluntary interruption of study;
• a student is advised to seek support from relevant support services, e.g. Counselling
Service, Disability/Academic Support.
• referral to the University’s Occupational Health Service.
Should a student fail to seek appropriate support following a recommendation from an Extenuating
Circumstances Panel, further claims made due to similar circumstances may be rejected.