This document relates to the extenuating circumstances (EC) policy and procedure that was
in place at the University of Nottingham during the 2022/23 academic year. For information
about the policy from 25 September 2023 onwards, please visit our extenuating
circumstances webpages.
Guidance on Acceptable Circumstances and Evidence (EC
Procedure)
1. Core considerations
This guidance supports the University’s Extenuating Circumstances Procedure and should be read
in conjunction with the procedure.
In order to be considered under this procedure, circumstances must meet all of the following criteria:
• They must be out of the student’s control – the student could not have prevented them.
• They must have had an impact – they must have had a demonstrably negative impact on the
student’s ability to study or to undertake an assessment.
• The timing of the circumstances must be relevant to the claimed impact.
2. Standard of evidence
• With the limited exception of the circumstances provided for in the Examination Self-Certification
Policy, all claims made under the Extenuating Circumstances Procedure must be supported by
independent, reliable documentary evidence of inability to comply with the assessment
requirements or to attend teaching or undertake required study.
• The burden of proof to support a claim lies with the student at all times.
• Evidence presented by students must meet the following standards and should:
a. Where written by appropriately qualified professionals who are independent of the
student, be on headed paper and signed and dated by the author. Evidence presented
by email may be acceptable if the email has been sent by the author from the official
domain name of the author's organisation. Students should note that the Cripps Health
Centre and the University Counselling Service in the UK or equivalent services on other
campuses will be unlikely to provide such confirmation if the student has had no
engagement with the service(s) prior to the affected assessment(s).
b. Confirm specifically that the circumstances were witnessed on the relevant date as
opposed to being reported retrospectively.

c. Be in English. It is the student's responsibility to provide supporting documentation and
any translation should be undertaken by an accredited translator (e.g. be a member of
the Association of Translation Companies. Any associated costs must be met by the
student.
d. Be unaltered by the student. Documentation that has been amended for any reason will
be deemed inadmissible by the University and may be subject to investigation under the
Academic Misconduct Procedure or the Code of Discipline. Schools/Departments should
also consider evidence supplied by other members of staff known to the student, for
example, Personal Tutors, Welfare Officers or Hall Wardens. People in these roles
should only provide supporting evidence if:
1. The student has engaged with them sufficiently prior to the affected
assessment(s) such that they are fully conversant with their situation.
2. They are satisfied that there will have been an adverse impact on the student’s
ability to study and/or take assessments
3. The student does not require medical/professional treatment for their
circumstances.
A template is provided for staff wishing to provide a supporting statement. This statement
serves as evidence in support of an extenuating circumstances claim, it is not
confirmation that the claim has been approved. An Extenuating Circumstances Panel
has the final decision regarding the claim.
Schools/Departments should also consider evidence available in Invigilator reports and,
if the report indicates significant negative impact during the assessment, should suspend
the need for medical evidence if the student would not normally require medical
treatment for the circumstances e.g. sickness and diarrhoea or migraine.
4. The School/Department should only consider upholding a student's claim of extenuating
circumstances when, in their opinion, all of the above conditions are fully satisfied.
5. The University reserves the right to take such steps as are deemed necessary to verify the
evidence submitted without prior notification. Where the University is unable to authenticate the
material to its satisfaction, the claim may not be accepted. The University reserves the right to
request sight of original documents, if necessary.
6. If there is evidence that a student has fraudulently presented documentation to the University the
matter will usually be referred for consideration under the University’s Academic Misconduct
regulations and, where applicable, the University’s Fitness to Practise Procedure.

3. Acceptable circumstances
1. The following gives examples of the kind of acceptable circumstances (ie where the student
might be able to demonstrate sufficient cause for non-compliance with an assessment requirement
or for missing teaching or required study) and examples of the associated evidence that is normally
required. This is given without prejudice and for general guidance; it is not exhaustive, definitive or
prescriptive.
2. The University considers each claim of extenuating circumstances on its own merits, as an
individual case and according to the relevant procedure. The EC Panel will consider the
documentation provided and determine whether it provides sufficient evidence of impact on the
ability to study and take assessments to approve the claim.
Circumstance Evidence Comments
Illness Printouts from the NHS app which Short-term illness (less than 7 days)
attest to the circumstances claimed in will not generally be regarded as an
the form. extenuating circumstance with regard
Where possible, a letter from an to assessed coursework, where the
appropriate medical professional or student is given a number of
statement from the University weeks/months to complete and
Counselling Service (or equivalent) submit such work, although a
confirming the nature of the illness School/Department may decide to
and the likely impact it is having on grant an extension dependent on
the student's ability to undertake individual circumstances and/or grant
formal assessment and/or study. This an extension for short-term
includes medical certificates supplied assignments (e.g. 1 or 2 weeks).
by online doctors, provided that they
are UK based and CQC-regulated.
Hospitalisation Discharge notes. Students should not need to visit a
A medical letter/certificate from the Health Centre to provide medical
relevant hospital confirming the certification when they have an
nature of the student's obvious physical injury.
circumstances. Corroboration, such as a note from a
Letter of appointment for a specialist hospital casualty department, or from
consultation, investigation or a tutor who has seen the injury,
outpatient treatment. would normally be sufficient.
Examples of obvious physical injury
could include plaster casts or metal

pins supporting broken bones.
Family illness A medical certificate/letter from a
medical professional confirming the
nature and severity of the family
circumstances.
Bereavement A death certificate or a letter The claim should make clear the
confirming the death from an nature of the relationship between the
independent person (usually not a student and the deceased and how
family member) Evidence from a the student’s ability to study has been
hospital Family Bereavement Centre, affected.
or equivalent.
Where these are not available, an
order of service from the funeral.
IT and/or computer Screen shots of the issue which
failure during online demonstrate the timing and the
examinations longevity of the issue.
Where relevant, a statement of
disrupted service from an internet
provider.
Acute Personal/ An original medical certificate or letter If EC panels require further
Emotional from an appropriate medical information please contact the
Circumstances professional or a letter from the counselling service directly. It is
University Counselling Service (or unlikely that evidence will be given if
equivalent) confirming a list of there has been limited or no recent
counselling session attended dates. engagement.
Pregnancy The University has a
policy on pregnancy related issues.
Students who are pregnant should
follow the guidance in this document.
In some cases it may be appropriate
to use the Extenuating
Circumstances procedure (for
instance when a student suffers from
a specific illness caused by the
pregnancy), in which case the
requirements for illness or

hospitalisation above should be
followed.
Victim of crime A written statement of events which is
supported by written evidence from
the Police (including a crime
reference number). Where the impact
of the crime has led to a medical or
other professional consultation, an
original medical certificate or letter
from an appropriate medical
professional or a letter from the
University Counselling Service (or
equivalent) confirming the likely
impact the reported crime had/is
having on the student's ability to
undertake formal assessment and/or
study.
Domestic disruption Where significant and unforeseen This applies only in relation to
domestic disruption has occurred examinations unless the
very close to a timetabled circumstances are exceptionally
examination a letter from an severe and extended.
appropriate independent Disturbances caused by housemates
individual/authority detailing the would generally be considered to be
relevant circumstances and an normal and therefore not acceptable
indication of the likely impact with as an extenuating circumstance.
their contact details provided. (See also Accommodation
Disturbances in section 4 –
Unacceptable Circumstances)
Representing the A letter of confirmation from the
University relevant organising body and a
at a national event supporting statement from the
or involvement in student explaining why the event
some other should be considered as
significant/prestigio significant/prestigious and the
us event reason(s) why they are required to be
absent from University.

Jury Service (UK) A letter from the Court together with A student who is asked to undertake
proof that a deferral has been jury service that would affect their
requested and rejected or proof that a ability to meet any of the
previous request for deferral has requirements of their programme
been accepted. should make a request to the Court
for the Jury Service to be deferred.
Only where the Court has refused
such a deferral will Jury Service be
considered as an acceptable
extenuating circumstance.
Deferral of Jury Service is only
permitted once by the Courts.
Court Attendance Where a student is required to attend
(UK) a tribunal or court as a witness,
defendant (but see‘ Criminal
Conviction’ in Section 4,
Unacceptable Circumstances) or
plaintiff the student should provide
official correspondence from the
tribunal/court confirming attendance
or a solicitor’s letter detailing the
nature and dates of the legal
proceedings and the requirement for
the student to attend.
Other The list of circumstances cannot be Examples of other circumstances that
exhaustive and it is possible that might be considered to be
other circumstances will arise that acceptable:
should be considered as acceptable. Requirements of military service;
Examples that have arisen are listed Exceptional transport issues (see
in the next column and additional Transport issues in Unacceptable
examples will be added as they circumstances);
become known. Unforeseen or exceptional work
commitments in the case of part-time
students.

4. Unacceptable circumstances
1. The following gives examples of circumstances that are likely to be considered as unacceptable
(ie where the student is unlikely to be able to demonstrate sufficient cause for non-compliance with
an assessment requirement or lack of engagement with required study activities). This is given for
general guidance and is not exhaustive, definitive or prescriptive. All cases should be considered on
an individual basis.
2. Due regard should be given to the reasonableness and proportionality of the outcome, and it may
be that in some circumstances these examples would be deemed to be acceptable particularly
where the circumstances are exceptional or could not have been foreseen.
Circumstance
Transport issues It is expected that students will ensure that they
arrive at the assessment on time, irrespective of
the form of transport used or relied upon. An
inability to travel as a result of circumstances
beyond the student's control may though
constitute sufficient cause e.g. cancellation of a
train/plane, car breakdown. Students should,
however, allow a reasonable contingency time in
any travel arrangements made, as moderate
delays are considered to be a normal
expectation.
Holidays It is the student's responsibility to ensure that
they are available for all study activities and all
assessments, including any assessments taking
place on Saturdays in the main examination
periods or offered in the reassessment period
(August – September). All holidays and
vacations should take place at a time that will
not impact on the student's availability to study
or undertake or prepare for an assessment(s).
Accommodation disturbances It is the student's responsibility to ensure that
they have access to suitable accommodation,
including for any assessments offered in the
reassessment period, and therefore ongoing or
foreseeable problems with accommodation are
unlikely to constitute a good case. Disturbances

caused by housemates would generally be
considered to be normal and therefore not
acceptable as an extenuating circumstance.
(See also Domestic Disruption, Victim of Crime
and Acute Personal/Emotional Circumstances in
section 3 – Acceptable circumstances.)
Misreading the examination timetable It is the student's responsibility to ensure that
they know and remember the location, time and
duration of all formal assessments.
Paid employment or voluntary work It is expected that students will ensure that any
paid employment or voluntary work does not
interfere with their ability to engage with their
studies or assessments. It should be noted that
examinations may be scheduled to take place on
Saturdays during the published examination
periods. The University has
guidance for students undertaking employment
or other activities during their studies.
Where unforeseen or exceptional work
commitments arise in the case of part-time
students these may be considered to be
acceptable dependent on individual
circumstances.
Exam stress Feeling ‘below par', stressed and anxious
leading up to and during an assessment(s) is a
common experience of many students. It is not
considered to be an acceptable extenuating
circumstance unless a medical diagnosis of
illness has been made.
IT and/or computer failure For assessed coursework, loss or corruption of
files is not an acceptable extenuating
circumstance. It is the student's responsibility to
ensure that all work which is electronically
stored, generated and/or submitted is sufficiently
backed up.
However, if failure happens during an online

examination, this may be grounds for a claim.
Foreseeable/preventable circumstances Where the circumstances are within the control
of the student they are unlikely to constitute
sufficient cause for failure to comply with the
assessment requirements or engage fully with
their studies.
Scheduling of assessments/deadline Deadlines being close together or examinations
scheduled close together are unlikely to
constitute acceptable circumstances.
Being reluctant to disclose the circumstances for Not informing the University of circumstances
any reason due to personal feelings e.g. shame,
embarrassment and pride, or having concerns
over the confidential handling of claims, are not
considered to be credible and compelling
explanations for non-submission of
contemporaneous claims. The University can
only consider circumstances if they are
disclosed in accordance with this policy.
Submitting the same extenuating circumstances
more than once except where the student has
accessed appropriate support to manage the
circumstances but there is an unexpected acute
episode at a particularly significant time.
The following will not be acceptable as extenuating circumstances:
Circumstance
Criminal conviction If a student is convicted of a criminal offence any
disruption caused by the investigation or
sentence is not an acceptable extenuating
circumstance.
Withdrawal of IT facilities or suspension for
reason of debt
5. Religious observance in relation to Scheduled Examinations
If a student has completed the Religious Observance Form by the published deadline and it has not
been possible to make alternative arrangements centrally, the School should take reasonable steps

to provide an alternative assessment opportunity. Where this is not possible, the School may
consider a claim under this policy.
This will not, however, normally be regarded as an extenuating circumstance with regard to
assessed coursework where the student is given a number of weeks/months to complete and
submit such work. Absence from an assessment for reason of religious observance, where no
Religious Observance Form has been completed, or where the relevant permission for absence has
not been obtained prior to the assessment, will not be deemed an acceptable extenuating
circumstance.
Students may submit EC claims in respect of performance in assessments affected by symptoms
attributable to religious observance.