Extenuating Circumstances
What is an extenuating circumstances (EC)?
During your time with us you might experience significant personal difficulties. Extenuating
circumstances (ECs) are events that affect your performance in assessments which are unforeseen,
unpreventable and out of your control. Our EC procedure is intended to support students with these
exceptional, short-term circumstances
In the first instance we recommend that you notify, for example, your Personal Tutor, PhD supervisor
or the Support and wellbeing team, as soon as possible. These people will be able to provide advice
and direct you to appropriate procedures or support services, if applicable.
If you’ve discussed your circumstances and you identify you need to make a claim under
the Extenuating Circumstances procedure, you will need to let us know by raising an extenuating
circumstances claim via the Student Enquiry Centre.
Your case will then be looked at and you’ll be informed of the outcome of your claim.
Additional information, guidance and advice is available on the Students’ Union website. We
recommend you consult these pages if you are experiencing circumstances affecting your studies.
If your case is highly sensitive and you are concerned about disclosing highly personal information
online, we advise that you speak to your Personal Tutor or the Support and Wellbeing team. These
people can review the evidence in confidence with you and may be able to make a supporting
statement for you to include with your form, without you needing to submit the sensitive evidence.
If you have a Support Plan that states on it that extensions to deadlines in relation to your disability
should be allowed on request, wherever possible, you do not need to complete an extenuating
circumstances form. Please refer to the procedure for Students with Support Plans that makes
reference to extension.
If the issue affecting you is a long-term one, then an EC is not the appropriate route to go down. In
these circumstances, you should seek advice on getting a Support Plan in place.
How to Apply for Extenuating Circumstances?
The main EC claim can be accessed from here.
Please note we are currently running a pilot with two departments in Engineering (Chemical and
Environmental Engineering and Foundation Engineering and Physics Sciences) and students on
these courses should use the separate links referred to.
Timeline for submitting an Extenuating circumstance claim
For Coursework: Claims must be submitted BEFORE the coursework deadline
For timetabled Examinations/Assessments: Claims must be submitted within 7 days of the affected
examinations.

What Evidence Do I Need to submit?
Usually, extenuating circumstances claims need to be supported by independent, reliable
documentary evidence of inability to comply with the assessment requirements or to attend teaching
or undertake required study. In section 3 of the Guidance on Acceptable Circumstances and
Evidence (EC Procedure) you can find examples of the kind of acceptable circumstances and
examples of the associated evidence that is normally required.
In addition, Schools/Departments can also consider evidence supplied by other members of staff
known to you, for example, Personal Tutors, Welfare Officers or Hall Wardens. A template is provided
for staff wishing to provide a supporting statement. This statement serves as evidence in support of
an extenuating circumstances claim, it is not confirmation that the claim has been approved.
Evidence may not be needed if you need to notify the University of short-term absence which means
you are unable to attend an examination. Please refer to the “What is the Self-Certification policy?”
section below.
What are Extenuating circumstances
What is an EC is available here . In summary the following are extenuating
circumstances:
▪ illness
▪ hospitalisation
▪ family illness
▪ bereavement
▪ IT and/or computer failure during online examinations
▪ acute Personal/Emotional Circumstances
▪ pregnancy
▪ victim of crime
▪ domestic disruption
▪ representing the University at a national event or involvement in some other significant/
prestigious event
▪ jury service (UK)
▪ court attendance (UK)
▪ other
What are not Extenuating circumstances
Here are some examples of circumstances that are likely to be considered as unacceptable but
please do read the information in full in section 4 of the Guidance on Acceptable Circumstances and
Evidence (EC Procedure).
▪ transport issues
▪ holidays
▪ accommodation disturbances

▪ misreading the examination timetable
▪ paid employment or voluntary work
▪ exam stress
▪ foreseeable/preventable circumstances
▪ scheduling of assessments/deadline
▪ being reluctant to disclose the circumstances for any reason
▪ submitting the same extenuating circumstances more than once except where the student has
accessed appropriate support to manage the circumstances but there is an unexpected acute
episode at a particularly significant time.
▪ criminal conviction
▪ withdrawal of IT facilities or suspension for reason of debt
What is the Self Certification policy?
In certain circumstances, you can self-certify yourself from an assessment. These circumstances are
▪ Circumstances must be unexpected, short-term and acute eg migraine that you are unable to
obtain medical evidence for.
▪ The type of assessment is a timed written or online formal examination, a language oral or an
OSCE. (not coursework, presentation etc)
▪ The most you can self-certify for us 2 consecutive calendar days
If you are self-certifying in these circumstances, there will only be one outcome – a further attempt at
the assessment in the next scheduled assessment period.
Full details of the policy are available here
I have a Support Plan. Do I need to submit an EC?
If you have a Support Plan that states on it that extensions to deadlines in relation to your disability
should be allowed on request, you do not need to complete an EC form. Please refer to the procedure
for Students with Support Plans
Where to get further support
If your case is highly sensitive and you are concerned about disclosing highly personal information
online, we advise that you speak to your Personal Tutor or a Welfare Officer. These people can
review the evidence in confidence with you and may be able to make a supporting statement for you
to include with your form, without you needing to submit the sensitive evidence.